never retreat
never explain
[Music]
get it done
and let them howl
and that's the point
get it done
do the thing
the accomplishment is what you're after
the performance is your opportunity
it doesn't matter what other people
think it doesn't matter if they want you
to win it doesn't matter if they
actively want you to lose what matters
is building that set of skills becoming
capable of doing the thing and in doing
the thing you will silence the critics
it's the man in the arena
who knows that he's showing up with the
abilities that he has to do battle the
question is
will you prepare the question is will
you do the work the question is will you
be able to get the thing done and
everybody spends their time focused on
what other people think instead of
realizing
the only thing that matters is how good
you get
[Music]
right now i want everybody listening to
this the only thing that matters is how
good you get that's the point that's the
purpose of all of this don't [__]
worry about what people think
just
get so good
that you can't be denied gets so good
that you can't be stopped it's so good
that your performance speaks for itself
if you get that good
my friends you
and you alone control your life
[Music]
if you are honest with yourself about
where you are
and you know exactly where you want to
go
you can go
anywhere
[Music]
as jim rohn said without a sense of
urgency
desire loses its value
what do you want badly enough
to suffer for
what price are you willing to pay to
become the person that you want to
become
when you do that when you have the
skills
no one and nothing can stop you
[Music]
really think about that for a second
there is a level of ability a level of
skill set where you can get so good at
something no matter how much people hate
you no matter how much they want to
bring you down no matter how actively
they come for you you can stand before
them and say i will not fall
[Music]
because you can outperform
it's not about convincing it's not about
politicking it's about getting better
and when you understand that that is
what the human animal is capable of when
you understand
that that's what you're capable of
everything in your life changes it just
becomes a simple choice
[Music]
what do you want that badly that you're
gonna turn that one into a need that
you're gonna do the work that you're
gonna show up nights weekends you're
gonna put in the work when other people
are out partying all you can think about
is becoming so good
that they can't stop you
becoming so good they can't stop you
[Music]
that's the greatest joy you're ever
going to experience in life is being
truly and uniquely yourself
[Music]
through a cruel twist of fate
the only way for a human to really
develop themselves and to become what
they're capable of becoming
is through suffering
it's by pushing yourself
[Music]
and as ralph waldo emerson said unless
you try something beyond what you've
already mastered you will never grow
[Music]
but to push yourself beyond what you've
already mastered is to really embrace
discomfort it's to push yourself to the
edges of what you can take it's to go
beyond the physical emotional and
intellectual limits
it's about redefining who you are it's
about redefining what you can stand it's
about redefining your breaking point and
literally becoming capable of more but
that process
through that twist of fate
requires us to put ourselves in
tremendous stress and pressure but if
you can do that if you can find a way to
step to that edge to look over the abyss
and to push yourself farther into the
unknown into a realm of danger if you
can do that
if unlike everyone else who seeks
comfort
if you can push yourself past pain
then you can become something more than
other people but your life will
ultimately be defined by what you do
not by what you think
not by what you want what you actually
do
[Music]
and as leonardo da vinci said i have
been impressed with the urgency of doing
knowing is not enough we must apply
being willing is not enough we must do
and that's got to be the guiding light
of your life if you want to find out
what you can do if you want to impact
people if you want to help if you want
to touch lives all the proclamations
that people make if you actually want to
do that and not just be talking
you've got to push yourself you've got
to make demands you've got to hold
yourself to a standard that other people
think is crazy you've got to become
stronger you've got to become more
capable
[Music]
because when you get to that point when
you are stronger when you're more
capable then you're actually able to
execute against the things that you want
to do you're able to help people you're
able to push yourself you're able to
become something more
but that process of becoming is an
active process and it is an active
process of discomfort pain pushing
suffering and growth it's beauty it's
wonderment it's hurt it's anguish it's
all of it rolled together but at the end
of the day it's your control it's your
willingness it's your why it's knowing
why you're pushing yourself that's going
to determine whether or not you push
beyond what other people think is
possible
in
that standing at the edge of uncertainty
not knowing if you're going to succeed
or fail not knowing if you're going to
live or die
it's in that moment that you realize who
you really are
we've all had days that go wrong
where despite your best efforts
everything crumbles and as you near the
end of that day you realize that this
was a lost day nothing came together you
weren't able to do what you told
yourself you were going to do at the
beginning of the day
but as eleanor roosevelt said with a new
day comes new strength and new thoughts
but that's up to you
you control what you think you don't
have to let your thoughts run away with
you you've got to take that moment to
decide that you're going to think those
new thoughts to let it be a rebirth to
let it rejuvenate you
[Music]
and you can't
live in the past you can't let the noise
of what didn't work you can't let the
noise of the ways that you failed the
things that went wrong you can't let
that noise drown out the signal of your
life you can't let it become the only
thing that you hear you can't let it
begin to shape the actual structures of
your mind to overly focus on the things
that went wrong so you have to make that
choice every day to decide that today is
a new day to decide that you're going to
have new thoughts to decide that you're
going to see potential in this new day
[Music]
[Applause]
i want greatness for you
and i'm willing to bet that everyone in
your life that loves you
wants the same thing they want to see
you make your dreams come true they
hunger for it to see you win the way
that you hunger for it yourself
but what they know
that you may not yet be willing to
accept
is that as rabindranath tagore said you
can't cross the sea merely by standing
and staring at the water
if you're gonna make those things come
true in your life if you're going to
make that vision that you have a reality
you've ultimately got to go out into the
cold and unforgiving water you've got to
be willing to face the swells you've got
to be willing to face the most
terrifying thing of all
the unknown
it isn't that the sea is dangerous that
scares people it's that you can't see
what's beneath the surface and that is
going to be the challenge that you're
going to have to face that is going to
have to be the fear that you stare
directly into the eye is the truth is
you don't know what you're capable of
the truth is you don't know if you're
going to succeed the absolute truth is
you may fail
[Applause]
[Music]
you may
get swallowed by the darkness
but at the end of the day that's going
to be your choice because whether or not
you fail does not mean you have to be
consumed by that failure you can get
back up and keep going but that is a
choice you have to make that's the
fortitude you have to develop within and
it is a development process it is
something that you do
you choose to be stronger than the sea
you choose to be stronger than the
unknown and you choose to be brave
enough to go out despite the unknown and
try to conquer something to try to build
something in your life to do the things
that other people think cannot be done
it is in facing that fear that you win
the battle understand finding the island
making it to the new world that's not
the [__] point
[Music]
the point is setting out the point is
being willing to get a nadine and to go
off into the sea
the point is being willing to face the
challenge
if you can do that regardless of what
comes you've already won
because you've proven something to
yourself
that you're willing to try
the truth will set you free
but first
it will piss you off
the reality is if you want to achieve
something great in your life you've got
to be willing to accept who you really
are right now you've got to know exactly
what you're good at and what you're not
and the reason that the truth is going
to piss you off is it's going to hurt
[Music]
it's going to hurt to acknowledge that
you're not yet who you want to be it's
going to hurt to know that you're not
yet capable of the things that you want
to be capable of and it's really going
to hurt
to know that the things that people say
behind your back the things that they
say to hurt you
that they're actually true
[Music]
that they're right
they have a point you aren't good at
that thing you aren't as good as you
could be you did embarrass yourself you
have fallen down all of those things are
almost certainly true
but when you can look at those things
when you can stare nakedly at your
inadequacies when you can really stop
and not protect yourself with ego but
protect yourself by knowing that you're
going to learn from where you failed
you're going to learn from the places
you've fallen down you're going to learn
your inadequacies so that you can build
something new
and as michio kaku says
all great ideas come from a picture
you've got to know what you want you've
got to know what that thing is that
you're building towards you've got to
know exactly who you're trying to become
and once you have that crystal clear
vision of who you want to be it is far
easier to acknowledge who you really are
so you've got to start with that picture
you've got to accept the reality pain
and all but you've got to have that
picture you've got to know where you're
going you've got to know what the skills
are that you need to build in order to
get there and once you do that once you
have that picture and that picture is
your obsession it's the thing you think
about you dream about you put it up on
your wall you tattoo it in your mind you
know exactly
who you're trying to become
if you are honest with yourself about
where you are
and you know exactly where you want to
go
you can go
anywhere
[Music]
knowledge isn't power
used knowledge is power putting that to
use to actually do something
[Music]
understanding it well enough to create
from that thing that's the end goal so
don't worry about what other people
think don't worry about what other books
other people have read don't worry if
you ever make it to the last page of
anything
[Music]
simply ask yourself do i understand
what i need to understand
to build the life i want to build to
bring to this world the things that i
want to bring
[Music]
however counter-intuitive however weird
it doesn't matter
if it's a moment of beauty for you and
you understand how to build it build it
[Music]
that's the greatest joy you're ever
going to experience in life is being
truly and uniquely yourself
but first you have to do the work to
understand who you really are
do that work
[Music]
and as brene brown said you can choose
courage or you can choose comfort
but you can't choose both
so as you look out at what you want to
do and it scares you
in that moment you've got a choice
it's not about not having fear it's
about rising up in the face of it it's
about accepting that this is going to be
hard it's about accepting that you might
fail it's about accepting that right now
you really aren't good enough
[Applause]
[Music]
you're not good enough to do what you
want to do but you can become
good enough and if you make that choice
if you step out into the unknown if you
wade into the water if you go with
everything you've got regardless of
whether or not you could fail if you do
that
then you've got proof
you know
that you have value because you're
willing to take that chance
and the willingness to take the chance
is courage itself
the only thing
that you should demand of yourself
is courage
if you don't stop
you can't be beaten
you